Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. I want to thank Dr. Frank Mora, director of the Kimberly Latin American and Caribbean Center and a professor here at FIU, and before that served with distinction at the Department of Defense. I want to recognize former Congressman Joe Garcia. Thank you Joe for being here-a long time friend and an exemplary educator. The President of Miami-Dade College, Eduardo Padron and the President of FIU, Mark Rosenberg-I thank you all for being here. And for me it's a delight to be here at Florida International University. You can feel the energy here. It's a place where people of all backgrounds and walks of life work hard, do their part, and get ahead. That's the promise of America that has drawn generations of immigrants to our shores, and it's a reality right here at FIU.

Today, as Frank said, I want to talk with you about a subject that has stirred passionate debate in this city and beyond for decades, but is now entering a crucial new phase. America's approach to Cuba is at a crossroads, and the upcoming presidential election will determine whether we chart a new path forward or turn back to the old ways of the past. We must decide between engagement and embargo, between embracing fresh thinking and returning to Cold War deadlock. And the choices we make will have lasting consequences not just for more than 11 million Cubans, but also for American leadership across our hemisphere and around the world.

I know that for many in this room and throughout the Cuban American community, this debate is not an intellectual exercise-it is deeply personal.

I teared up as Frank was talking about his mother-not able to mourn with her family, say goodbye to her brother. I'm so privileged to have a sister-in-law who is Cuban American, who came to this country, like so many others as a child and has charted her way with a spirit of determination and success.

I think about all those who were sent as children to live with strangers during the Peter Pan airlift, for families who arrived here during the Mariel boatlift with only the clothes on their backs, for sons and daughters who could not bury their parents back home, for all who have suffered and waited and longed for change to come to the land, "where palm trees grow." And, yes, for a rising generation eager to build a new and better future.

Many of you have your own stories and memories that shape your feelings about the way forward. Like Miriam Leiva, one of the founders of the Ladies in White, who is with us today-brave Cuban women who have defied the Castro regime and demanded dignity and reform. We are honored to have her here today and I'd like to ask her, please raise your hand. Thank you.

I wish every Cuban back in Cuba could spend a day walking around Miami and see what you have built here, how you have turned this city into a dynamic global city. How you have succeeded as entrepreneurs and civic leaders. It would not take them long to start demanding similar opportunities and achieving similar success back in Cuba.

I understand the skepticism in this community about any policy of engagement toward Cuba. As many of you know, I've been skeptical too. But you've been promised progress for fifty years. And we can't wait any longer for a failed policy to bear fruit. We have to seize this moment. We have to now support change on an island where it is desperately needed.

I did not come to this position lightly. I well remember what happened to previous attempts at engagement. In the 1990s, Castro responded to quiet diplomacy by shooting down the unarmed Brothers to the Rescue plane out of the sky. And with their deaths in mind, I supported the Helms-Burton Act to tighten the embargo.

Twenty years later, the regime's human rights abuses continue: imprisoning dissidents, cracking down on free expression and the Internet, beating and harassing the courageous Ladies in White, refusing a credible investigation into the death of Oswaldo Paya. Anyone who thinks we can trust this regime hasn't learned the lessons of history.

But as secretary of state, it became clear to me that our policy of isolating Cuba was strengthening the Castros' grip on power rather than weakening it-and harming our broader efforts to restore American leadership across the hemisphere. The Castros were able to blame all of the island's woes on the U.S. embargo, distracting from the regime's failures and delaying their day of reckoning with the Cuban people. We were unintentionally helping the regime keep Cuba a closed and controlled society rather than working to open it up to positive outside influences the way we did so effectively with the old Soviet bloc and elsewhere.

So in 2009, we tried something new. The Obama administration made it easier for Cuban Americans to visit and send money to family on the island. No one expected miracles, but it was a first step toward exposing the Cuban people to new ideas, values, and perspectives.

I remember seeing a CNN report that summer about a Cuban father living and working in the United States who hadn't seen his baby boy back home for a year-and-a-half because of travel restrictions. Our reforms made it possible for that father and son finally to reunite. It was just one story, just one family, but it felt like the start of something important.

In 2011, we further loosened restrictions on cash remittances sent back to Cuba and we opened the way for more Americans-clergy, students and teachers, community leaders-to visit and engage directly with the Cuban people. They brought with them new hope and support for struggling families, aspiring entrepreneurs, and brave civil society activists. Small businesses started opening. Cell phones proliferated. Slowly, Cubans were getting a taste of a different future.

I then became convinced that building stronger ties between Cubans and Americans could be the best way to promote political and economic change on the island. So by the end of my term as Secretary, I recommended to the President that we end the failed embargo and double down on a strategy of engagement that would strip the Castro regime of its excuses and force it to grapple with the demands and aspirations of the Cuban people. Instead of keeping change out, as it has for decades, the regime would have to figure out how to adapt to a rapidly transforming society.

What's more, it would open exciting new business opportunities for American companies, farmers, and entrepreneurs-especially for the Cuban-American community. That's my definition of a win-win.

Now I know some critics of this approach point to other countries that remain authoritarian despite decades of diplomatic and economic engagement. And yes it's true that political change will not come quickly or easily to Cuba. But look around the world at many of the countries that have made the transition from autocracy to democracy - from Eastern Europe to East Asia to Latin America. Engagement is not a silver bullet, but again and again we see that it is more likely to hasten change, not hold it back.

The future for Cuba is not foreordained. But there is good reason to believe that once it gets going, this dynamic will be especially powerful on an island just 90 miles from the largest economy in the world. Just 90 miles away from one and a half million Cuban Americans whose success provides a compelling advertisement for the benefits of democracy and an open society.

So I have supported President Obama and Secretary Kerry as they've advanced this strategy. They've taken historic steps forward-re-establishing diplomatic relations, reopening our embassy in Havana, expanding opportunities further for travel and commerce, calling on Congress to finally drop the embargo.

That last step about the embargo is crucial, because without dropping it, this progress could falter.

We have arrived at a decisive moment. The Cuban people have waited long enough for progress to come. Even many Republicans on Capitol Hill are starting to recognize the urgency of moving forward. It's time for their leaders to either get on board or get out of the way. The Cuba embargo needs to go, once and for all. We should replace it with a smarter approach that empowers Cuban businesses, Cuban civil society, and the Cuban American community to spur progress and keep pressure on the regime.

Today I am calling on Speaker Boehner and Senator McConnell to step up and answer the pleas of the Cuban people. By large majorities, they want a closer relationship with America.

They want to buy our goods, read our books, surf our web, and learn from our people. They want to bring their country into the 21st century. That is the road toward democracy and dignity and we should walk it together.

We can't go back to a failed policy that limits Cuban Americans' ability to travel and support family and friends. We can't block American businesses that could help free enterprise take root in Cuban soil-or stop American religious groups and academics and activists from establishing contacts and partnerships on the ground.

If we go backward, no one will benefit more than the hardliners in Havana. In fact, there may be no stronger argument for engagement than the fact that Cuba's hardliners are so opposed to it. They don't want strong connections with the United States. They don't want Cuban Americans traveling to the island. They don't want American students and clergy and NGO activists interacting with the Cuban people. That is the last thing they want. So that's precisely why we need to do it.

Unfortunately, most of the Republican candidates for President would play right into the hard-liners' hands. They would reverse the progress we have made and cut the Cuban people off from direct contact with the Cuban American community and the free-market capitalism and democracy that you embody. That would be a strategic error for the United States and a tragedy for the millions of Cubans who yearn for closer ties.

They have it backwards: Engagement is not a gift to the Castros-it's a threat to the Castros. An American embassy in Havana isn't a concession-it's a beacon. Lifting the embargo doesn't set back the advance of freedom-it advances freedom where it is most desperately needed.

Fundamentally, most Republican candidates still view Cuba-and Latin America more broadly-through an outdated Cold War lens. Instead of opportunities to be seized, they see only threats to be feared. They refuse to learn the lessons of the past or pay attention to what's worked and what hasn't. For them, ideology trumps evidence. And so they remain incapable of moving us forward.

As President, I would increase American influence in Cuba, rather than reduce it. I would work with Congress to lift the embargo and I would also pursue additional steps.

First, we should help more Americans go to Cuba. If Congress won't act to do this, I would use executive authority to make it easier for more Americans to visit the island to support private business and engage with the Cuban people.

Second, I would use our new presence and connections to more effectively support human rights and civil society in Cuba. I believe that as our influence expands among the Cuban people, our diplomacy can help carve out political space on the island in a way we never could before.

We will follow the lead of Pope Francis, who will carry a powerful message of empowerment when he visits Cuba in September. I would direct U.S. diplomats to make it a priority to build relationships with more Cubans, especially those starting businesses and pushing boundaries. Advocates for women's rights and workers' rights. Environmental activists. Artists. Bloggers. The more relationships we build, the better.

We should be under no illusions that the regime will end its repressive ways any time soon, as its continued use of short-term detentions demonstrates. So we have to redouble our efforts to stand up for the rights of reformers and political prisoners, including maintaining sanctions on specific human-rights violators. We should maintain restrictions on the flow of arms to the regime-and work to restrict access to the tools of repression while expanding access to tools of dissent and free expression. We should make it clear, as I did as secretary of state, that the "freedom to connect" is a basic human right, and therefore do more to extend that freedom to more and more Cubans-particularly young people.

Third, and this is directly related, we should focus on expanding communications and commercial links to and among the Cuban people. Just five percent of Cubans have access to the open Internet today. We want more American companies pursuing joint ventures to build networks that will open the free flow of information-and empower everyday Cubans to make their voices heard. We want Cubans to have access to more phones, more computers, more satellite televisions. We want more American airplanes and ferries and cargo ships arriving every day. I'm told that Airbnb is already getting started. Companies like Google and Twitter are exploring opportunities as well.

It will be essential that American and international companies entering the Cuban market act responsibly, hold themselves to high standards, use their influence to push for reforms. I would convene and connect U.S. business leaders from many fields to advance this strategy, and I will look to the Cuban American community to continue leading the way. No one is better positioned to bring expertise, resources, and vision to this effort-and no one understands better how transformative this can be.

We will also keep pressing for a just settlement on expropriated property. And we will let Raul explain to his people why he wants to prevent American investment in bicycle repair shops, in restaurants, in barbershops, and Internet cafes. Let him try to put up barriers to American technology and innovation that his people crave.

Finally, we need to use our leadership across the Americas to mobilize more support for Cubans and their aspirations. Just as the United States needed a new approach to Cuba, the region does as well.

Latin American countries and leaders have run out of excuses for not standing up for the fundamental freedoms of the Cuban people. No more brushing things under the rug. No more apologizing. It is time for them to step up. Not insignificantly, new regional cooperation on Cuba will also open other opportunities for the United States across Latin America.

For years, our unpopular policy towards Cuba held back our influence and leadership. Frankly, it was an albatross around our necks. We were isolated in our opposition to opening up the island. Summit meetings were consumed by the same old debates. Regional spoilers like Venezuela took advantage of the disagreements to advance their own agendas and undermine the United States. Now we have the chance for a fresh start in the Americas.

Strategically, this is a big deal. Too often, we look east, we look west, but we don't look south. And no region in the world is more important to our long-term prosperity and security than Latin America. And no region in the world is better positioned to emerge as a new force for global peace and progress.

Many Republicans seem to think of Latin America still as a land of crime and coups rather than a place where free markets and free people are thriving. They've got it wrong. Latin America is now home to vibrant democracies, expanding middle classes, abundant energy supplies, and a combined GDP of more than $4 trillion.

Our economies, communities, and even our families are deeply entwined. And I see our increasing interdependence as a comparative advantage to be embraced. The United States needs to build on what I call the "power of proximity." It's not just geography-it's common values, common culture, common heritage. It's shared interests that could power a new era of partnership and prosperity. Closer ties across Latin America will help our economy at home and strengthen our hand around the world, especially in the Asia-Pacific. There is enormous potential for cooperation on clean energy and combating climate change.

And much work to be done together to take on the persistent challenges in our hemisphere, from crime to drugs to poverty, and to stand in defense of our shared values against regimes like that in Venezuela. So the United States needs to lead in the Latin America. And if we don't, make no mistake, others will. China is eager to extend its influence. Strong, principled American leadership is the only answer. That was my approach as Secretary of State and will be my priority as President.

Now it is often said that every election is about the future. But this time, I feel it even more powerfully. Americans have worked so hard to climb out of the hole we found ourselves in with the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression in 2008. Families took second jobs and second shifts. They found a way to make it work. And now, thankfully, our economy is growing again.

Slowly but surely we also repaired America's tarnished reputation. We strengthened old alliances and started new partnerships. We got back to the time-tested values that made our country a beacon of hope and opportunity and freedom for the entire world. We learned to lead in new ways for a complex and changing age. And America is safer and stronger as a result.

We cannot afford to let out-of-touch, out-of-date partisan ideas and candidates rip away all the progress we've made. We can't go back to cowboy diplomacy and reckless war-mongering. We can't go back to a go-it-alone foreign policy that views American boots on the ground as a first choice rather than as a last resort. We have paid too high a price in lives, power, and prestige to make those same mistakes again. Instead we need a foreign policy for the future with creative, confident leadership that harnesses all of America's strength, smarts, and values. I believe the future holds far more opportunities than threats if we shape global events rather than reacting to them and being shaped by them. That is what I will do as President, starting right here in our own hemisphere.

I'm running to build an America for tomorrow, not yesterday. For the struggling, the striving, and the successful. For the young entrepreneur in Little Havana who dreams of expanding to Old Havana. For the grandmother who never lost hope of seeing freedom come to the homeland she left so long ago. For the families who are separated. For all those who have built new lives in a new land. I'm running for everyone who's ever been knocked down, but refused to be knocked out. I am running for you and I want to work with you to be your partner to build the kind of future that will once again not only make Cuban Americans successful here in our country, but give Cubans in Cuba the same chance to live up to their own potential.

Thank you all very, very much.

"Well, let me thank you, Strobe, it's great to be back at Brookings, and there are a lot of long time friends and colleagues who perch here at Brookings. Obviously including Strobe and Martin who I'll speak to in a minute. Also Bob Einhorn and Tammy Wittes.

This institution has hosted many important conversations over the years, and I appreciate Strobe's reference to the event last night and the continuing dialogue about urgent issues facing our nation and world. That's what brings me here today-back to Brookings-to talk about a question we are all grappling with right now: how to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon-and more broadly, how to protect ourselves and our allies from the full range of threats that Iran poses.

The stakes are high, and there are no simple or perfectly satisfying solutions. So these questions-and in particular, the merits of the nuclear deal recently reached with Iran-have divided people of good will and raised hard issues on both sides.

Here's how I see it. Either we move forward on the path of diplomacy and seize this chance to block Iran's path to a nuclear weapon-or, we turn down a more dangerous path leading to a far less certain and riskier future.

That's why I support this deal. I support it as part of a larger strategy toward Iran.

By now, the outcome in Congress is no longer in much doubt. So we've got to start looking ahead to what comes next: enforcing the deal, deterring Iran and its proxies, and strengthening our allies.

These will be my goals as president. And today, I want to talk about how I would achieve them.

Let me start by saying I understand the skepticism so many feel about Iran. I too am deeply concerned about Iranian aggression and the need to confront it. It's a ruthless, brutal regime that has the blood of Americans, many others, including its own people, on its hands. Its political rallies resound with cries of "Death to America." Its leaders talk about wiping Israel off the face of the map, most recently just yesterday, and foment terror against it. There is absolutely no reason to trust Iran.

Now, Vice President Cheney may hope that the American people will simply forget, but the truth is, by the time President Obama took office and I became secretary of state, Iran was racing toward a nuclear capability. They had mastered the nuclear fuel cycle-meaning that they had the material, scientists, and technical know-how to create material for nuclear weapons. They had produced and installed thousands of centrifuges, expanded their secret facilities, established a robust uranium enrichment program, and defied their international obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. And they hadn't suffered many consequences. I voted for sanctions again and again as a Senator from New York, but they weren't having much effect. Most of the world still did business with Iran. We needed to step up our game.

So President Obama and I pursued a two-pronged strategy: pressure and engagement. We made it clear that the door to diplomacy was open-if Iran answered the concerns of the international community in a serious and credible way.

We simultaneously launched a comprehensive campaign to significantly raise the cost of Iranian defiance.

We systematically increased our military capabilities in the region, deepening our cooperation with partners and sending more firepower-an additional aircraft carrier, battleship, strike aircraft, and the most advanced radar and missile defense systems available.

Meanwhile, I traveled the world-capital by capital, leader by leader-twisting arms to help build the global coalition that produced some of the most effective sanctions in history.

With President Obama's leadership, we worked with Congress and the European Union to cut Iran off from the world's economic and financial system. And one by one, we persuaded energy-hungry consumers of Iranian oil like India and South Korea to cut back. Soon, Iran's tankers sat rusting in port. Its economy was collapsing.

These new measures were effective because we made them global. American sanctions provided the foundation - but Iran didn't really feel the heat until we turned this into an international campaign so biting that Iran had no choice but to negotiate. They could no longer play off one country against another. They had no place to hide.

So, they started looking for a way out. I first visited Oman to speak with the sultan of Oman in January of 2011. Went back later that year. The sultan helped set up a secret backchannel. I sent one of my closest aides as part of a small team to begin talks with the Iranians in secret. Negotiations began in earnest after the Iranian election in 2013-first the bilateral talks led by Deputy Secretary Bill Burns and Jake Sullivan that led to the interim agreement; then the multilateral talks led by Secretary John Kerry, Secretary Ernie Moniz, and Under Secretary Wendy Sherman.

Now there's a comprehensive agreement on Iran's nuclear program. Is it perfect? Well, of course not. No agreement like this ever is. But is it a strong agreement? Yes it is. And we absolutely should not turn it down.

The merits of the deal have been well argued, so I won't go through them in great detail here. The bottom line is that it accomplishes the major goals we set out to achieve. It blocks every pathway for Iran to get a bomb. And it gives us better tools for verification and inspection, and to compel rigorous compliance.

Without a deal, Iran's breakout time-how long they need to produce enough material for a nuclear weapon-would shrink to a couple of months. With a deal, that breakout time stretches to a year, which means that if Iran cheats, we'll know it and we'll have time to respond decisively.

Without a deal, we would have no credible inspections of Iran's nuclear facilities. With a deal, we'll have unprecedented access. We'll be able to monitor every aspect of their nuclear program.

Now, some have expressed concern that certain nuclear restrictions expire after 15 years, and we need to be vigilant about that, which I'll talk more about in a moment. But other parts are permanent, including Iran's obligations under the Non-Proliferation Treaty and their commitment to enhanced inspections under the additional protocol.

Others have expressed concern that it could take up to 24 days to gain access to some of Iran's facilities when we suspect cheating. I'd be the first to say that this part of the deal is not perfect-although the deal does allow for daily access to enrichment facilities and monitoring of the entire nuclear fuel cycle. It's important to focus on that because being able to monitor the supply chain is critical to what we will find out and how we will be able to respond. But our experts tell us that that even with delayed access to some places, this deal does the job. Microscopic nuclear particles remain for years and years. They are impossible to hide. That's why Secretary Moniz, a nuclear physicist, has confidence in this plan.

And some have suggested that we just go back to the negotiating table and get a better, unspecified deal. I can certainly understand why that may sound appealing. But as someone who started these talks in the first place and built our global coalition piece by piece, I can assure you, it is not realistic. Plus, if we walk away now, our capacity to sustain and enforce sanctions will be severely diminished. We will be blamed, not the Iranians.

So if we were to reject this agreement, Iran would be poised to get nearly everything it wants without giving up a thing. No restrictions on their nuclear program. No real warning if Tehran suddenly rushes toward a bomb. And the international sanctions regime would fall apart-so no more economic consequences for Iran, either.

Those of us who have been out there on the diplomatic front lines know that diplomacy is not the pursuit of perfection-it's the balancing of risk. And on balance, the far riskier course right now would be to walk away.

Great powers can't just junk agreements and expect the rest of the world to go along with us. We need to be reasonable and consistent, and we need to keep our word-especially when we're trying to lead a coalition. That's how we'll make this-and future-deals work.

But it's not enough just to say yes to this deal. Of course it isn't. We have to say, "Yes-and." Yes, and we will enforce it with vigor and vigilance. Yes, and we will embed it in a broader strategy to confront Iran's bad behavior in the region. Yes, and we will begin from day one to set the conditions so Iran knows it will never be able to get a nuclear weapon-not during the term of the agreement, not after, not ever.

We need to be clear and I think we have to make that very clear to Iran about what we expect from them. This is not the start of some larger diplomatic opening. And we shouldn't expect that this deal will lead to broader changes in their behavior. That shouldn't be a promise for proceeding.

Instead, we need to be prepared for three scenarios.

First, Iran tries to cheat-something it's been quite willing to do in the past.

Second, Iran tries to wait us out. Perhaps it waits to move for 15 years, when some but not all restrictions expire.

And third, Iran ramps up its dangerous behavior in the region, including its support for terrorist groups like Hamas and Hezbollah.

I believe that the success of this deal has a lot to do with how the next president grapples with these challenges. So let me tell you what I would do.

My starting point will be one of distrust. You remember President Reagan's line about the Soviets-trust, but verify? My approach will be distrust, and verify. We should anticipate that Iran will test the next president. They'll want to see how far they can bend the rules.

That won't work if I'm in the White House.

I'll hold the line against Iranian non-compliance. That means penalties even for small violations. Keeping our allies on board-but being willing to snap back sanctions into place unilaterally if we have to. Working with Congress to close any gaps in the sanctions. Right now, members of Congress are offering proposals to that effect, and I think the current administration should work with them to see whether there are additional steps that could be taken. Finally, it means ensuring that the IAEA has the resources it needs-from finances to personnel to equipment-to hold Iran's feet to the fire.

But the most important thing we can do to keep Iran from cheating or trying to wait us out is to shape Iranian expectations right from the start. The Iranians and the world need to understand that we will act decisively if we need to.

So here's my message to Iran's leaders: The United States will never allow you to acquire a nuclear weapon.

As president, I will take whatever actions are necessary to protect the United States and our allies. I will not hesitate to take military action if Iran attempts to obtain a nuclear weapon. And I will set up my successor to be able to credibly make the same pledge. We will make clear to Iran that our national commitment to prevention will not waver depending on who's in office. It's permanent.

And should it become necessary in the future, having exhausted peaceful alternatives, to turn to military force, we will have preserved-and in some cases enhanced-our capacity to act. And because we've proven our commitment to diplomacy first, the world will more likely join us.

Then there's the broader issue of countering Iran's bad behavior across the region. Taking nuclear weapons out of the equation is crucial, because an Iran with nuclear weapons is so much more dangerous than an Iran without them. But even without nuclear weapons, we still see Iran's fingerprints on nearly every conflict across the Middle East. They support bad actors from Syria to Lebanon to Yemen.

They vow to destroy Israel. And that's worth saying again - they vow to destroy Israel. We cannot ever take that lightly, particularly when Iran ships advanced missiles to Hezbollah and the Ayatollah outlines an actual strategy for eliminating Israel-or talks about how Israel won't exist in 25 years, just like he did today.

And in addition to all the malicious activity they already underwrite, we've got to anticipate that Iran could use some of the economic relief they get from this deal to pay for even more. So as president, I will raise the costs for their actions, and confront them across the board. My strategy will be based on five strong pillars.

First, I will deepen America's unshakeable commitment to Israel's security, including our long-standing tradition of guaranteeing Israel's Qualitative Military Edge. I'll increase support for Israeli rocket and missile defenses, and for intelligence sharing. I'll sell Israel the most sophisticated fighter aircraft ever developed, the F-35. We'll work together to develop and implement better tunnel detection technology to prevent arms smuggling and kidnapping, as well as the strongest possible missile defense system for northern Israel, which has been subjected to Hezbollah's attacks for years.

Second, I will reaffirm that the Persian Gulf is a region of vital interest to the United States. We don't want any of Iran's neighbors to develop or acquire a nuclear weapons program either-so we want them to feel and be secure. I will sustain a robust military presence in the region, especially our air and naval forces. We'll keep the Strait of Hormuz open. We'll increase security cooperation with our Gulf allies-including intelligence sharing, military support and missile defense-to ensure they can defend against Iranian aggression, even if that takes the form of cyber-attacks or other non-traditional threats. Iran should understand that the United States-and I as president-will not stand by as our Gulf allies and partners are threatened. We will act.

Third, I will build a coalition to counter Iran's proxies, particularly Hezbollah. That means enforcing and strengthening the rules prohibiting the transfer of weapons to Hezbollah, looking at new ways to choke off their funding, and pressing our partners to treat Hezbollah as the terrorist organization it is. It's time to eliminate the false distinction that some still make between the supposed political and military wings. If you're part of Hezbollah, you're part of a terrorist organization, plain and simple.

Beyond Hezbollah, I'll crack down on the shipment of weapons to Hamas, and push Turkey and Qatar to end their financial support. I'll press our partners in the region to prevent aircraft and ships owned by companies linked to Iran's Revolutionary Guard from entering their territories, and urge our partners to block Iranian planes from entering their airspace on their way to Yemen and Syria.

Across the board, I will vigorously enforce-and strengthen if necessary-the American sanctions on Iran and its Revolutionary Guard for its sponsorship of terrorism, its ballistic missile program, and other destabilizing activities. I'll enforce-and strengthen if necessary-our restrictions on sending arms to Iran, and from Iran to bad actors like Syria. And I'll impose these sanctions on everyone involved in these activities-whether they're in Iran or overseas. This will be a special imperative as some of the UN sanctions lapse. So the U.S. and our partners have to step up.

Fourth, I'll stand-as I always have-against Iran's abuses at home, from its detention of political prisoners to its crackdown on freedom of expression, including online. Its inhumane policies hold back talented and spirited people. Our quarrel is not and never has been with the Iranian people-they'd have a bright future, a hopeful future, if they weren't held back by their leaders. As I've said before, I think we were too restrained in our support of the protests in June 2009 and in our condemnation of the government crackdown that followed-that won't happen again. We will enforce and-if need be-broaden our human rights sanctions. And I will not rest until every single American detained or missing in Iran is home.

Fifth, just as the nuclear agreement needs to be embedded in a broader Iran policy, our broader Iran policy needs to be embedded in a comprehensive regional strategy that promotes stability and counters extremism.

Iran, like ISIS, benefits from chaos and strife. It exploits other countries' weaknesses. And the best defense against Iran are countries and governments that are strong-that can provide security and economic opportunity to their people and they must have the tools to push back on radicalization and extremism. Helping countries get there will take time and strategic discipline. But it's crucial that the United States leads this effort.

I will push for renewed diplomacy to solve the destructive regional conflicts that Iran fuels. We have to bring sufficient pressure on Assad to force a political solution in Syria, including a meaningful increase in our efforts to train and equip the moderate Syrian opposition-something I called for early in the conflict.

And the United States must lead in assisting those who have been uprooted by conflict-especially the millions of Syrian refugees now beseeching the world to help them. As Pope Francis has reminded us, this is an international problem that demands an international response-and United States must help lead that response. That's who we are, and that's what we do.

So our strategy needs to cover all these bases. Iran's nuclear ambitions and its support of terrorism. Its hatred of Israel and its cruelty toward its citizens. Its military resources and its economic strengths and weaknesses. We need to be creative, committed, and vigilant. And on every front, we need to keep working closely with our friends and partners.

On that note, let me just spend a moment speaking about the serious concerns that Israel's leaders have about this deal.

Israel has every reason to be alarmed by a regime that both denies its existence and seeks its destruction. I would not support this agreement for one second if I thought it put Israel in greater danger. I believe in my core that Israel and America must stand side by side. And I will always stand by Israel's right to defend itself as I always have.

I believe this deal, and a joint strategy for enforcing it, makes Israel safer.

I say that with humility. I'm not Israeli. I don't know what it's like to live under constant threat from your neighbors, in a country where the margin for error is so thin. I know that my saying, "This deal makes you safer," won't alleviate the very real fears of the Israeli people.

But I have stood for Israel's security for a very long time. It was one of my bedrock principles as secretary of state. It's why I supported stronger defense systems, like the Iron Dome anti-rocket defense system, which proved so effective in protecting Israeli lives during the conflicts of 2012 and last summer. It's why I've worked closely with Israel to advance the two-state vision of a Jewish and democratic Israel with secure and recognized borders. And it's why I believe we should expedite negotiations of a long-term military assistance agreement with Israel. Let's not wait until 2017, when the current deal expires-let's get it done this year.

I would invite the Israeli prime minister to the White House during my first month in office, to talk about all of these issues-and to set us on a course of close, frequent consultation, right from the start. Because we both rely on each other for support, as partners, allies and friends.

This isn't just about policy for me. It is personal. As president, I'm committed to shoring up and strengthening the relationship between our countries. We have had honest disagreements about this deal. Now is the time to come together. Now is the time to remember what unites us, and build upon it. And so, I know well that the same forces that threaten Israel, threaten the United States. And to the people of Israel, let me say-you'll never have to question whether we're with you. The United States will always be with you.

There have also been honest disagreements about the nuclear deal here at home. Smart, serious people can see issues like these differently. Like my friend, Chuck Schumer, who's going to be an excellent leader in the Senate-I respect the skepticism that he and others feel. And I respect differences of opinion, and people who advocate vigorously for their beliefs.

But I have a harder time respecting those who approach an issue as serious as this with unserious talk-especially anyone running to be president of the United States.

Several Republican candidates boast they'll tear up this agreement in 2017, more than a year after it's been implemented. That's not leadership-that's recklessness. It would set us right down the very dangerous path we've worked so hard to avoid.

I'm looking forward to a robust debate about foreign policy in this campaign. Where we have disagreements, we should lay them out-like if American ground forces in Iraq should engage in direct combat, as Scott Walker wants; or if we should keep Cuba closed, as Marco Rubio and Jeb Bush want. Let's debate these issues.

But let's debate them on the basis of facts, not fear. Let's resist denigrating the patriotism or loyalty of those who disagree with us. And let's avoid at all costs undermining America's credibility abroad. That only makes us weaker, and I'm going to call it out whenever I see it.

I spent four years representing America abroad as America's secretary of state. It was one of the greatest privileges of my life. And knowing that my fellow Americans were counting on me, and rooting for me - not as democrats, not as republicans, but as Americans - meant a great deal.

We are all one team-the American team. And that doesn't change, no matter how much we might disagree.

And I can tell you from personal experience-we are stronger overseas when we are united at home. So we simply have to find a way to work together better than we have been doing. There's a lot that Democrats and Republicans can and should agree on. The United States should lead in the Middle East-we can agree on that. We should stand by our friends against Iranian aggression-we can agree on that, too. I believe that the plan I've laid out today is one that all Americans could endorse, and I hope they will.

The next president will face threats from many quarters-from those we see today, like terrorism from ISIS, aggressiveness from Putin, pandemics like Ebola, to all those we can't predict yet. We need a leader who has a strong vision for the future, and the skill and determination to get us there.

We can't stop the world from changing. But we can help to shape those changes. And we do that by leading-with strength, smarts, and an unyielding commitment to our values.

You know I saw that when I was first lady, senator and secretary of state, that when America leads with principle and purpose, other people and governments are eager to join us. No country comes close to matching our advantages-the strength of our economy, the skill of our workforce, our tradition of innovation, our unmatched network of alliances and partnerships. So we are poised to remain the world's most admired and powerful nation for a long time-if we make the smart choices, and practice smart leadership.

That's what I will try to do as your president. And I believe as strongly as ever that our best days are ahead of us-and that America's greatest contributions to the world are yet to come.

Thank you."
